The law that backed payment of jumbo pension and allowances to all former governors of Zamarafa State, which was abolished on Tuesday by the Zamfara State House of Assembly also provided for a five-bedroom house for all former governors of Zamfara State. Other perks in package include medical treatment in Nigeria and abroad for former governors and their immediate family members, two vehicles every four years and a 30-day vacation abroad. Former governor Abdulaziz Yari, had in a leaked letter addressed to Zamfara State government, dated October 17, 2019, requested that his N10m monthly upkeep and pension be paid because they are backed by law and are not privileges that could be “truncated.” However, the Zamfara State House of Assembly had reacted swiftly after the letter went viral in the social media by revoking the law. Below are some provisions of the repealed law, which the The Interview obtained from Yari’s twitter page: A former governor of the state shall be entitled to: A.    A monthly pension equivalent to the salary he was receiving while in office. B.    The sum of 10,000,000 (Ten Million Naira) only monthly upkeep allowance. All former Governors of the state shall be entitled to personal staff as follows: a.      An officer not below grade level 12 to serve as his administration officer, to be selected by the former governor and to be paid by the state government. b.     A personal secretary not below grade level 10 who shall be selected by the former governor and to be paid by the state government. A former governor of the state shall be entitled to: a.      Two armed policemen to be attached for life. And to be provided by the Nigerian Police Force. b.     One state security service officer not below grade level 10 and to be attached for life. And to be provided by the State Security service. A former governor of the state shall be entitled to a.      Two vehicles to be bought by State Government and replaced every four years. b.     The driver shall be selected by the former Governor and shall be paid by the State Protocol Office. a.      Free medical treatment for former Governor and his immediate families and vacation within Nigeria or outside when necessary. b.     30 days annual vacation within Nigeria or outside Nigeria There shall be provided by the State: a.      A moderately furnished and equipped office in any location choice of the former governor within the state. b.     A moderately furnished 5 bedroom house in any location choice of the former Governor within the state.