President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday congratulated David Lyon, the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate on his victory at the polls. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Mr. Lyon winner of the election that held  on Saturday on Monday. Mr. Lyon polled 352,552 votes to defeat Duoye Diri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 143, 172 votes, ending PDP long reign in Bayelsa state since 1999. In a series of tweet, President Buhari, who acknowledged the widespread of violence that lead to deaths in some part of Bayelsa State, said the victory of APC candidate in the governorship election was “impressive” in a tweet. He said, “I most warmly congratulate the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the Bayelsa election, David Lyon, on his impressive victory. “I look forward to working with the incoming government to improve the lives of the people of Bayelsa State. “I commend the people of Bayelsa for generally exercising their right to vote in a peaceful manner, notwithstanding the violence in some areas. “Sadly the violence led to some deaths, particularly before the election. My deepest sympathies to the families of the victims, Buhari said. Urging those who are not satisfied with the election outcome to seek redress through constitutionally established channels, Buhari said governor-elect should endeavour to carry along all various interest in the state. “I would like to urge Governor-elect Lyon to strive to carry along all the various interests, in the next phase of this journey. And to all those not satisfied with the outcome of the election, I urge you to seek redress through the constitutionally-established channels”, Buhari said. Yahya Bello’s Victory Well Won President Muhammadu Buhari also congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Governor Yahaya Bello, who has just been declared winner of the Gubernatorial election in Kogi State. Bello polled 406,222 votes,  defeating Musa Wada of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 189,704 votes. The president tweeted, “Congratulations to Governor Yahaya Bello on his re-election. It was a race well run and a victory well won. I urge him to see his renewed mandate as another opportunity to build on the foundations already laid towards improving the lives of the people of Kogi State”. He also commiserated with the families and loved ones of all those who lost their lives during the election in Kogi.