It was another defensive masterpiece by the Eagles against Guinea and a clean sheet. Would you say those new changes contributed to this? First of all it was not only me that changed, all those who came into the team also, in the other positions.  I think we have done a great job, defending them all through the game, they (Guinea) were dangerous.  At the end we have done a great job. We are better and that is why we qualified for the next round. What is the goal for the team after qualification? We are through to the next round but first we have another game against Madagascar. People will say we can take it easy a little bit, I would say that is a wrong approach because there is another game coming up after the Madagascar game. We would be very well advised if we keep up our form, Madagascar won’t take it easy they also want to qualify after getting a draw and a win against Guinea and Burundi respectively, it won’t be an easy one but definitely we can be more relaxed than them. Whatever happens we all must be ready to do our jobs and learn how to score goals. Omeruo’s goal decided the game for us against Guinea, a much deserved one for him Do you think the team has adapted to the heat It was a huge problem earlier on? Actually it was the first time on Wednesday where we had to face that problem because the first game was in the evening, and even when we were training it was moderate so it was a tough one against Guinea. Yeah, the next game is 6 pm (5pm Nigeria time), I hope from then onward, other games will be at the same time, we don’t have to face that problem again. We have three players doing so well in the central defence: Kenneth Omeruo, William Troost-Ekong and yourself. Was that a good problem for the team? I won’t call it a good problem. I will call it a good asset. Whatever happens we all must be ready to do our jobs and learn how to score goals. Omeruo’s goal decided the game for us against Guinea, a much deserved one for him. For me it is not a problem but a big advantage to the team. The coach decides who to play each games, it is not a problem it is an advantage for the team and we must make the proper use of it. What has been the relationship in camp between the players? I think it has always been very close, the coach always plays with solidarity, despite the reports going round, but people saw how we played our hearts out. So as a team, we are a unit and we will always do our best to show that to the world.