Temitope Ojudu, who goes by the stage name Morello, is the first son of journalist-cum-politician, Senator Babafemi Ojudu. He recently flew in from Abuja to Lagos to have the video premiere of his song ‘System’ at Lekki House Party. The Interview chats with the 24-year-old musician whose eyes are set on the stars: How would you describe your kind of music? Actually, I tap into all kinds of music; maybe you’ll call it Afro swing. It is a blend of Afrobeat, Jamaican music and RnB. What’s the story behind your passion for music? I started playing keyboard at the age of seven. My father bought it for me. He has been very supportive. A calm person. Then I began to learn how to play other music instruments like the saxophone. I started producing music at the age of 15. Didn’t he object to your choice to be a musician? I’m a lawyer and I think I am matured enough to know what I want to do in life Did you study law before you ventured into music? I did music before law. Along the line, I went back to music. In the beginning, my father wasn’t too sure that I was sure of my interest in music. But I think I have proved to him that this is what I want to do. I’m taking music very serious now Was it a condition by your parents if you were to pursue music headlong? Yes. When they told me that I needed to study something else apart from music, it made sense to me. In the beginning, my father wasn’t too sure that I was sure of my interest in music. But I think I have proved to him that this is what I want to do. I’m taking music very serious now. Music is the only thing that makes me serious. Every other thing is like a joke to me. Even back in secondary school, I wasn’t too serious with my studies, all I wanted to do was just music. Are you the only musician in your family? My younger brother has a liking to music. He plays the sax as well. But my father is a big fan of music. He used to listen to songs particularly songs by Daddy Showkey. You know he is a journalist; he is friends with many artistes. Has it been smooth sailing for you? Not necessarily. Like any other upcoming artistes, it takes a while before people starts noticing you. There are times I will go to a show and I will not be allowed to perform because they don’t know who I am. Or maybe they will turn you down because the other artistes on the bill are more prominent and bigger than you. My father is a big fan of music. He used to listen to songs particularly songs by Daddy Showkey. You know he is a journalist; he is friends with many artistes So, your father’s name never opened doors for you? No. he is not really a loud person and I want to create a name for myself, not relying on my father’s name. Why do you produce your own songs? I think it is better to learn how to do things yourself than waiting for someone to do it for you. That’s why I learnt how to produce my songs because I know exactly what I want. That however doesn’t stop me from working with other producers. For instance, I can’t wait to work with Don Jazzy.