The Federal Road Safety Corps Sokoto Zonal Command is set to deploy personnel and logistics including patrol vehicles and ambulances on all the major routes of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara states in order to ease movement of vehicles and people and ensure safety of lives and property during the Sallah period. The Command is also poised to tackle overloading, driving under influence of alcohol, drugs and other intoxicants as well as reckless driving during the Sallah period. These, among other major traffic offences that have claimed a number of lives and caused major injuries to road users will be the focus of the Command during the eid-el-kabir period. The Zonal Commanding Officer in charge of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara States, Assistant Corps Marshal Kayode Olagunju,  disclosed these in a release signed by ACC Aliyu Maaji, the Zonal Public Education Officer. Olagunju directed all commanding Officers in the Zone to use the sallah period to further sensitise members of the public on the upcoming massive enforcement of the laws on number plates and riders licences for motorcycle and tricycle operators, commencing on October 2,  2019. The zonal commander further warned motorists to desist from stuffing humans and animals in vehicles, avoid use of phone while driving and engaging in lane indiscipline and other forms of violations on the road. Olagunju vowed to get  offenders arrested and prosecuted in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act, 2007, the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2012 and other relevant laws. He advised motorists and other road users not to engage in any activities that could keep them behind bar during the sallah celebration. He disclosed that suspected drunk drivers would be subjected to alcolyser and breath analyser tests to arrest those driving under influence of alcohol and other intoxicants. The Zonal Commander enjoined all road users to obey traffic rules and regulations to ensure safety. He advised that people should plan their journeys well and leave allowances for delays that could be caused by increased traffic volumes. He admonished then to leave their places of origins early to avoid any rush on the road for safe arrival at the destinations. He reminded all that only the living can celebrate . Olagunju wished all motorists and other road users safe trips during the sallah period.