The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has reiterated the readiness of the Commission to take its anti-corruption campaign to all nooks and cranny of Nigeria. This, according to him, would afford the Commission to awake all Nigerians to the antics of fraudsters and shield them from falling victim. Magu, who spoke through the Zonal Head of the EFCC’s Ibadan Office, Friday Ebelo, while featuring on an interview programme on Gold 95.5 FM, Ilesha, Osun State, on Tuesday, August 27, 2019, noted that the anti-graft agency is currently paying attention to people of the grassroots across the country because of their vulnerability to incidents of crime. “Most times those in the grassroots always fall prey to the tactics of syndicate who see them as ignorant of their modus operandi. This is why we must education those in the villages to be vigilant and be properly guided on consequences of crimes too,” he said. The EFCC boss also charged parents to pay attention to activities of their children and always ask questions when they notice something strange about their ways of life. “If your child who is only a student comes home with items that are above his known sources of livelihood, as a parent, you should ask questions. Stop encouraging them to commit crime. “If we fail to ask questions when necessary, we might be inadvertently leaving them to go astray, and this may bring grief and shame to the family on the long run.” He assured of the Commission’s commitment to the fight against all forms of economic and financial crimes, adding that no matter how long, the long arm of the law will catch up with crime perpetrators. While urging the youth to look inwards and be creative in order to be useful to themselves and the society, Magu insisted that if people were able to think outside the box, the usual refrain of unemployment would subside. “Look for genuine sources of livelihood. There are lots of clean businesses you can do to get money. If there is no job, you can create one. You can start small and over a period of time you will expand,” he admonished. The General Manager of the station, Alhaji Abolade Imam, later received the EFCC team in his office where he thanked them for honouring their invitation. He promised to collaborate with the Commission in the effort to educate the public on the ills of corruption and how to avoid them. The anchor of the programme, Oladapo Ojo, had earlier told the officials of the Commission about the plan to find means through which the EFCC will reach many of its audience whose only mean of communication is Yoruba language.