Buhari Under Uncommon Pressure To Save Akpabio Last week Interview Confidential (IC) reported that President Muhammadu Buhari would come under serious pressure to visit some South West states after the presidential poll, to shore up the fortunes of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship election. In what proved to be an epic battle on February 23, Atiku Abubakar won two South West states (Ondo and Oyo) and came quite close in Osun. Insiders revealed to IC, however, that Buhari’s talisman may not only be in demand in the South West, where he might still be visiting. He may, however, start his visit in Akwa Ibom, where the political life of the party’s golden boy, former Governor Godswill Akpabio is hanging by a thread. Akpabio was not only beaten flat in the senatorial election, APC also lost the three senatorial seats and nine of the 10 seats in the House of Representatives so far declared. Out of the 31 local governments in Akwa Ibom, PDP has won 28 and APC two, remaining one. Multiple sources revealed that Buhari will come under pressure from party honchos to pressure the INEC Chairman to remove the resident electoral commissioners in Akwa Ibom, Benue, Abia and three other states with at least two in the South West. Obasanjo, IBB, Watching From Safe Distance Two masterminds of the failed Buhari-must-go campaign were so uncertain of the outcome of the last presidential election, they decided to watch proceedings from safe distances. Both former president Olusegun Obasanjo and former military president General Ibrahim Babangida flew out of the country on the eve of the election. The IC learnt that while Obasanjo scrambled off to Senegal, to “monitor” the presidential election in the West African country; Babangida sneaked off to Switzerland “to rest”. Before he wangled himself out, however, Obasanjo assured anxious admirers that he had never embarked on any failed project and that President Muhammadu Buhari’s removal will not be the first. He later not only returned to the country on Wednesday with his mouth so firmly padlocked that the army of journalists who wanted to get his reaction to Buhari’s victory would have been forgiven to think that OBJ forgot the key to his mouth in Dakar, he jetted out again, same day, on a Virgin Atlantic flight to London! IBB was, as usual, IBB. Pretending that he knew nothing, saw nothing and did nothing, he congratulated Buhari and urged the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to work with him. Of all the things IBB urged Buhari to do in his second term, however, the Maradona was silent on the fight against corruption! Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s ‘Original Sin’ As Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu tries to stitch together what is left of his political reputation after his party lost the presidential election to the opposition PDP in Ondo, tongues are wagging about what really happened. In announcing the decision to ‘query Akeredolu’ last week, the APC said it was punishing the governor (and two other governors) for “anti-party activities.” The APC did not say exactly what the anti-party activities were, after all when Nuhu Ribadu the ACN presidential candidate lost the election in Osun in 2011, former Governor Rauf Aregbesola was not penalised. Why Akeredolu? IC gathered that APC suspects that the party’s loss was not an accident, but a deliberate effort by Akeredolu to repay the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, for his support during the governor’s election. An insider said, “Akeredolu believes he owes Atiku one for the former vice president’s financial support during his difficult election in 2017. His stubborn, rebellious spirit may have also played a role; but above all, he feels he owes Atiku.” Hanging Wike On A Wall Picture Those who are after the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike will stop at nothing to roll over him. Last week, a video of four framed wall pictures showing PDP Chairman, Uche Secondus; PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar; Governor Wike; and a fourth man, was trending on WhatsApp. Although the source of the video is not known, IC gathered that the word in top APC campaign circles was the pictures were on the wall of the Rivers State government state house, where Wike – like all PDP governors – had “toppled” Buhari and “installed” Atiku as president-in-waiting! On closer inspection, however, it would be obvious to any seeing/thinking person that the pictures were on the wall of a PDP party office, where surely, parties would be at liberty to install any pictures on their own wall!