The fastest man at the just-concluded African Games in Rabat, Morocco, Raymond Ekevwo from Nigeria, said in this interview, that moving to the US to study at the University of Florida was a major change in his life. How does it feel to win the African Games 100m title in Morocco? It’s a great feeling that I can’t really explain. It’s been a rough and good year. I just want to thank God for the season. You have now joined other Nigerian greats who won gold at the games. I am happy. One just has to keep working and to keep believing that one day one will get it right. That has been the thing between my coach and myself. Just pushing me on the track each day to go for the best I could ever be. He did his best for me to come to Morocco; he did the needful and the result was the gold I won. One just has to keep working and to keep believing that one day one will get it right. That has been the thing between my coach and myself With your performance in Morocco, would you say this will be what to expect at the World Championships in Doha? The thing for me is that I don’t go for any race with much expectations. I just go there, execute what I learnt in training, what my coach taught me before the race and I know when I do the right thing, I will get the result. I will go to the World Championships to do what I need to do and to get the result. The thing for me is that I don’t go for any race with much expectations. I just go there, execute what I learnt in training, what my coach taught me before the race and I know when I do the right thing, I will get the result. What has the atmosphere in the camp been like? We are Nigerians; we are always family. Anytime we are together as a team, we just show love to each other as family. Anytime we are around to compete for the country, we are always there for one another. It’s amazing that anytime you come to the camp, you meet someone you don’t even know before and you relate with each other. It’s always a good thing. We give ourselves support and encouragement. I will love to appreciate my teammates for their support always. Do you think an athlete can make it from Nigeria with the situation in the country? It was never easy trying to make it as an athlete in Nigeria. But as a Nigerian, we were trained to adapt to any situation we found ourselves whether good or bad. We always see the positive side and we it our best. That’s the spirit that has been helping me to the level I am today. Anytime we are around to compete for the he country, we are always there for one another. It’s amazing that anytime you come to the camp, you meet someone you don’t even know before and you relate with each other Would you say moving to the US was an advantage for you? It has been really fantastic for me. Going to the University of Florida has been a major change in my life. I want to say thank you to the school for that great opportunity, they are part of the success story alongside my coach, my trainer, and teammates in school.