Super Eagles forward, Moses Simon, speaks on why he will continue to work hard to make the team going to the next Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt after missing the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup due to injury. Excerpt. .. After missing last two editions of the AFCON, the Super Eagles have qualified for the 2019 edition. How do you feel as a member of the team? I will say very excited and happy that we qualified. I’m also happy that I contributed my part to the success of the team. Close to the last World Cup in Russia, you had an injury that ruled you out of the competition; how did you take the news especially when you knew you had done enough to be part of the team? At that moment I felt sad because as I had the injury, I knew I was out of the World Cup. It was something I can never forget in my life. I worked so hard with the team to achieve the qualification from the beginning to the end, so I was really devastated. The dream did not come through for me and my family, but I later consoled myself. First, I am still very young and I also believe that everything work together for good. I decided to concentrate on myself and continue to work so hard. It is not going to be easy because we are going to be facing some strong opposition, but the spirit in the team is very high and we are going there to make the country proud There was the rumour that you would still have played at the World Cup but the coach didn't take you along, do you feel bad about that? It would have been a waste if I had gone to the World Cup. The result of the final test showed that I would return before the second round and the team didn't qualify for the round of 16, so I wouldn't have been of any help to the team even if I had gone. The AFCON is another opportunity for you to represent the country at a major event; how are you looking forward to it? I will say I am not the coach, so I will have to continue to work hard to be part of the final list that will be heading to Egypt for the AFCON. I’m back at my club now and will continue to do everything that will make the coach to select me for the competition. I will continue to work hard on the areas I’m deficient and improve on my game. Do you see the Super Eagles winning the AFCON in Egypt? It is not going to be easy because we are going to be facing some strong opposition, but the spirit in the team is very high and we are going there to make the country proud. I will say we are going to do our best to make the country proud.