Ex-international, Julius Aghahowa, has tipped Super Eagles of Nigeria to win the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations scheduled for Egypt later in the year: What are the chances of the Super Eagles at the AFCON? Every country coming for the AFCON has the chance of lifting the trophy. I am speaking for my country and I am of the opinion that with the crop of players that we have at the moment, we are capable of lifting the trophy in Egypt. If we look at the crop of players we have at the moment, they are young players coming through mixed with some experienced ones. I think we are on a steady growth path at the moment. The coach must bring his team together and then bring in one or two players, that is the way forward. We will be playing against Seychelles in the last game of the qualifiers and also playing some friendly games. How should Rohr prosecute the games? A combination of the current team and some new players should be involved in the qualifier and friendlies. If you have to start testing new players, when do you want to get your squad ready for the championships? The coach must bring his team together and then bring in one or two players, that is the way forward. How would you assess the performance of Rohr so far? Rohr has done well since he arrived in the country, but there is room for improvement. However, we need to continue to support him, encourage him, and let him know that he can do more especially in the area of players playing in the country; he has to do more than he is doing at the moment. We are capable of lifting the trophy in Egypt. If we look at the crop of players we have at the moment, they are young players coming through mixed with some experienced ones. Are you saying we should have more of the home-based players in the national team? We should have more of them (home-based) in the team. I am not saying he should bring in four, five or more players from the local scene; there should be some players that are marked down and let’s see how they can perform. At least two players must be in the team so that we can encourage the home-based lads. They are playing under very bad conditions, salaries are not paid on time, and they still do their best. We need to encourage them.