The dissolution of the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), is a continuation of the war between leaders from the region in the All Progressives Congress. Sources told Interview Confidential that APC Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had gained a temporary upper-hand when he got the Senate to confirm Dr. Pius Odubu as Chairman of the board that has just been dissolved. Odubu was Oshiomhole’s deputy in Edo and the APC had cornered the post to recruit him in the war against Governor Godwin Obaseki and also to get Bini sympathy. The move was also calculated to further edge out Transport Minister and former Rivers State Governor, Rotimi Amaechi, from the power play. After the 2019 polls, Godswill Akpabio, Ovie Omo-Agege and Oshiomhole privately approached the President, saying they were the new leaders of the South South and asking for control of the NDDC, the region’s cash cow. Sources said SGF Boss Mustapha had also indicated interest in wresting the control of the Commission from the Niger Delta Ministry. One source said, “It’s now a three-way battle between Oshiomole, Akpabio and Amaechi, but Boss has also shown his hand. With governors in the region opposing Oshiomhole’s nominee, it’s clear that they are backing Obaseki in this fight.” ‘Expect Six Days Delay In Lagos Ports’ International shippers using Nigeria’s flagship seaports are advising clients to expect delays of between five and six days during this period. Sources told Interview Confidential that one of such companies, PIL, based in South Africa recently issued a memo to its clients informing them of “severe berthing delays at Lagos and Tin Can Lagos” and advising them to factor the delay into their supply chain delivery date. It did not say how long the delay would last. The memo said, “It is understood that the delays are attributed to the Port being at maximum capacity due to the country effectively closing its borders to neighbouring countries, compounded by lack of equipment in the terminal and a recent fire in the port confines.”