Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), has said that the head of the Department of State Security team that re-arrested the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, apologised to the judge for invading the court. In a statement on Sunday, Falana, who is he lead counsel to Sowore, said he was shocked by the denial of the DSS, adding that Sowore was re-arrested without a warrant. The DSS had issued a statement on Saturday denying that its men invaded the court and claiming that the viral video of the mayhem inside the court on Friday was “stage-managed.” Here is the full statement by Falana: “Our attention has been drawn to the self contradictory press release of the SSS in which an unsuccessful attempt was made to absolve itself of  responsibility for the armed invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, in general, and the desecration of Court No 7 of Hon. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu in particular as well as the illegal re-arrest of Omoyele Sowore. First, pretending to forget that the abominable desecration of the Federal High Court was covered live by domestic and international media outfits and journlists, some of whom were also direct victims of the gangsterism, barbarism and brutalisation displayed by officers of the Service on the 6th day of December 2019, the Service has conducted “eye witness” accounts of what transpired with the aim of showing that officers of the Service were not involved in the rearrest of Sowore. “The Service argues on the one hand that the arrest of Sowore was “stage managed” by his supporters in order to give the Service a bad name whilst also admitting at the same time that officers of the Service arrested Sowore outside the Court. “Having declared that the Service arrested Sowore “outside the court”, despite the “stage managing” argument, what the Nigerian people want to see happen is the immediate release of Sowore, pending his trial as ordered by the court. Indubitable facts confirming desecration of court and re-arrest by the Service “However, the following facts underscore our insistence that the Service was solely responsible for the desecration of the hallowed chambers of the court: “By the advantage of information technology, the whole world has placed  responsibility for the gangsteric desecration of the court on the SSS. The SSS cannot extricate itself from the abominable acts of 6th December, 2019. “The SSS claimed that Sowore addressed some people at the Transcorp Hotel after his release. Why did the SSS not challenge Sowore for breaching the conditions of his bail? Why did not the prosecutor not inform the trial court that Sowore had breached his bail conditions? “When I informed the court that fresh charges were being filed against our clients and that they could be re-arrested, the prosecution denied any such plan. “Having taken over the court room vi et armis Justice Ojukwu hurriedly rose and asked the Registrar to adjourn all other cases. After the learned trial judge had risen for the day she summoned the heads of the prosecution and defence teams to her chambers. “When the lead prosecutor, Dr. Liman Hassan SAN denied knowledge of the invasion of her court she directed him to invite the head of the sss team in the court. “When challenged to justify the invasion of the court the officer could not. He apologised to Justice Ojukwu on behalf of the sss. The judge then directed the officer to withdraw the sss operatives from the court room. “The directive was complied with as the operatives withdrew from the court room but rushed out to join their colleagues who had taken over the entire court house. “Notwithstanding that the sss could not produce any warrant of arrest for Sowore the defence team decided that I should accompany him to the SSS headquarters in view of his physical brutalisation inside the court room and the open threat to his life. “I did  and ensured that he was driven in my car to the sss headquarters where I handed him over to the officers on duty. Thereafter, I  requested for a meeting with the head of the sss but I was informed that he was not in the office. “Though, ordinarily, officers of the Service do not wear any uniform, on the 6th day of December, some of them were in mufti, many were not only armed but also masked while others disguised in lawyer’s black and white suit. Regardless of the form of appearance, the officers of the Service inside Court No. 7 were identifiable by their roles and acts of seizing Sowore and pinning him down. “It is an utter poor reasoning to say that Sowore’s supporters were also those bent on injuring him in order to arrest him. The argument of the Service in this respect is as unfortunate and pitiable as the earlier argument of the Service in respect of the Late Chief Gani Fawehinmi who was once accused of wanting to set ablaze his own house. “If Sowore’s supporters subjected him to such brutalisation in the presence of sss operatives why were they not arrested for contravening the provisions of the Anti Torture Act, 2017? Were the SSS operatives expecting the supporters of a defendant to kill him in their presence? “Before submitting himself for arrest Sowore had rightly demanded for a warrant of arrest and detention order but the  sss operatives were unable to produce either. On rationalisation of re-arrest of Sowore by the Service “In rationalising the re-arrest of Sowore, which is denied in the same Press statement, the Serivce alleged that Sowore held metings with some people. “Assuming without conceding that Sowore held meetings with some people in Transcorp Hotel as alleged by the sss, why did the Prosecution not inform the trial court that the defendant had breached his bail condition? On the claim that the Service is law-abiding “The sss says it is a law abiding institution. But why did it refuse to comply with the order of Justice Taiwo to release Sowore? Why did the sss threaten to report the judge to the NJC for granting bail to Sowore? “Why did the sss subject the order of Justice Ojukwu for the release of Sowore to its own approval by asking the sureties already verified by the judge to report themselves to the sss? “Incidentally, the current prosecutor, Dr. Liman Hassan SAN was the counsel to the defendant in the case of  FRN v Air Commodore Mohammed. “In that case the order of Justice Nnamdi Dimgba for the release of the defendant on bail was flouted by the SSS. As if that was not enough,  the sss invaded the home of the judge on 8th October 2016 when the houses of  judges accused of corruption were raided. “Even though I had never appeared before Justice Dimgba I had known as a judge of impeccable integrity. So, I challenged the SSS for painting an incorruptible judge with the brush of shame. “It was after my intervention that the NJC gave the judge a clean bill of health. Thereafter, the judge withdrew from the case. “The SSS thought that it had won but it was a phyrric victory. Thus, Justice Tsoho (current Chief Judge)  to whom the case was re assigned reiterated the orders of Justice Dimgba and proceeded to rule that  trial would not commence in the case until the defendant was released from custody. It was at that stage that the sss complied with the order of the federal high court. Conclusion “In the light of the foregoing we reiterate our demand for the release of not only Sowore in obedience to court orders, pending the verdict of the court in their trial. We equally call for the release of all other political detainees, and criminal sispects who have been admitted to bail pending trial by competent courts. “Finally,  it is common knowledge that this country was ruled by military dictators for about three decades. On no occassion did  security operatives invade court premises to arrest political activists  inside a court room. Therefore, the bizarre harassment of courts cannot be tolerated under a democratically elected government that claims to operate under the rule of law.