Attempts by some powerful forces to remove the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, reached fever-pitch levels recently with an attempt to recruit the Emir of Katsina into the plot. Sources told Interview Confidential that a top spy and known Magu despiser who forced out of the service rallied a few influential Daura persons in Buhari’s government on a recent mission to the palace of Abdulmumini Usman. “The sole purpose of the visit was to get the emir on their side,” the source said. “They wanted him to use the next opportunity of his encounter with President Buhari to get him to remove Magu, who they perceive as a thorn their side. The Emir told them to go and tell Buhari by themselves and with their own mouth. They left with their tails between their legs.” Media reports this week have alleged a thickening plot by some influential persons – especially one oil and gas mogul close to Diezani Alison-Madueke who currently under EFCC probe – to tarnish Magu’s image. Magu is in his fifth year as Chairman of the EFCC, without confirmation by the Senate. Senate President, Former Borno Governor Clash The President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan and the former governor of Borno State, Kashim Ibrahim Shettima are at daggers’ drawn over who becomes the national secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress. Sources told Interview Confidential that while the Senate president is not opposed to a former serial governorship contestant, Kashim Imam, running for the position, Shettima is opposed to Imam. Although Shettima’s reasons are not very clear, Imam had run twice as governorship candidate of the PDP in Borno. He also vied against Shettima’s candidate and current governor of Borno, Babagana Umara Zulum. “It’s a long history of bad blood,” our source said. “Keep in mind that Shettima, a two-term governor, is now a serving senator. Somebody of the Imam’s stature occupying a key party position in Abuja might pose a problem for Shettima sooner than later.” The source added that even though Senate president Lawan is not strongly opposed to Imam, “Lawan also has his own candidate!” APC national leader and former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is also said to be interested in who emerges the next party secretary, but he has so far not openly thrown his weight behind any candidate. The last national secretary of APC, Mala Buni, stepped down after he was elected governor of Yobe State and Mr. Victor Giadom from Rivers State was appointed in acting capacity.