Madam Esther Sowore, the mother of detained Sahara Reporters Publisher, Omoyele Sowore, has invoked the name of Allah in her quest to get her son released from the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). Sowore, who was arrested in Lagos on August 3, 2019 for for planning to lead a protest tagged, #RevolutionNow, has been detained by the DSS despite two court orders to release them after meeting bail conditions. In a short video published by Sahara Reporters, Madam Sowore said her son, Omoyele was not a criminal and should be released to face his case in the court. While pleading with President Buhari to release her son ‘in the name of Allah, Sowore’s mother also reminded the president that he was a Muslim, even as she called on all mothers to stand with her and speak out. She also lamented that her son’s incarceration had deprived her of his visits to her in the village which he usually does every December. Excerpt from the video: “Dear SSS, Dear Buhari, I am Yele Sowore’s mother. I am sending you this message as a mother. I am a woman, your mother is a woman, your wife is a woman also. This is December and Yele has been taken away since August. “He always comes to me in the village every December but you have been holding him. I am a widow, my son has always been like that. He speaks against injustice and stands up against it. “He doesn’t run away, he faces his case. Please release him and let him face his case in court. I know him, he can’t run away because he knows he has not committed any crime. “You are a Muslim, please in the name of Allah, leave my son, release him. I call on all mothers to speak out, let us join voice for the sake of the future of our children. “Omoyele is only asking for a better Nigeria so that all our children can have good future. My mind is disturbed that he has not been allowed to go for medical care since August. Alhaji Bichi Yusuf, please obey the law since you have gone to court release Omoyele Sowore now. “Since I gave birth to him, he always speaks against evil. Even in the village, before he went to school in Lagos, he has always been like that. “He is not a criminal, release Sowore now. Please release my son because you have your own son, you take care of your son, let me take care of my children. “I am a widow, release my son. I cannot eat, I cannot sleep and it is affecting my health. Please release Omoyele Sowore, my son. He is not a criminal.”