The presidential candidate of the Action Democratic Party, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani, speaks on Saturday’s election and claims that he is stepping down for President Buhari: With the last-minute postponement of the elections, can INEC still claim to be presiding over a transparent process? I believe that it’s for exactly that reason they postponed the elections so that they can have a transparent process. We cannot say the postponement has undermined the credibility of the process since the election has not taken place yet. It is just a build up to the process and what they told us is that they are trying to ensure free, fair, credible and also peaceful elections. That is what they want to have and that is what they have told us. I believe them. I have interacted with them. And I know the personalities that are there, they will not want to be compromised. What impact do you think the postponement will have on voter turnout? It will have a negative effect because not everyone will be able to afford to go back to their villages to go and vote. So, there will likely be voter apathy but that is the cost of the shift. That is what we have to live with. For instance, parties like ourselves, we don't have the kind of money that those who have stolen our money have. They can afford to do it so many times over. We can't afford that. Has the President created a do-or-die atmosphere by threatening that those who snatch ballot boxes do so at the risk of their lives? The President should withdraw that statement, to create an enabling environment for confidence and peaceful elections. Voters should not have to be afraid of been hit by a stray bullet or something like that. Whether they say it or not, we know that attempts are made. They are making those attempts as we speak. But I am telling you that the top echelon of INEC, the individuals who are there are people, their credibility is not in doubt. They will not compromise their own records What do you think are the chances of your party winning the presidential election? Well, our chances are even brighter because Nigerians have seen the futility of going ahead with these two desperadoes – APC and PDP. You can see that we need an alternative now, not tomorrow. We need to change the narrative. We need to have people who can deliver. We need to have people who have the love of this country at heart. And such people are myself, Engr. Y Y Sani, presidential candidate of ADP. We represent the future and if you want to know the essence of this country, which is greatest, that is what we represent. There have been reports that you will step down for the presidential candidate of APC. Do you still plan to do so? No, it is not true at all. Politicians have a way of engaging in a campaign of calumny. That is what they are trying to do. But we are up to the task. Everybody knows that we are not affiliated to APC or PDP. That is for sure. We are not stepping down for anybody. There is no reason for it. We've seen both the APC and PDP accusing each other if planning to rig and also comprising officials at INEC. Does this shake your confidence about what will happen on Saturday? Whether they say it or not, we know that attempts are made. They are making those attempts as we speak. But I am telling you that the top echelon of INEC, the individuals who are there are people, their credibility is not in doubt. They will not compromise their own records. But of course, politicians will try to influence them with one thing or another. It is up to them not to fall for it because society will not forgive them if they do.