The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South West is obviously looking beyond last weekend’s presidential and National Assembly election. Information at the disposal of Interview Confidential (IC) suggests that leaders of the party in the South West are already putting pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari to visit key the battleground states of Kwara, Ogun and Lagos, soon after the result of the presidential election is announced. It is hoped that the momentum of a presidential visit will do two things: 1) heal deep-seated internal divisions in the APC in these states and 2) bury any remaining hope of victory by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It would be recalled that in Ogun, for example, Buhari had been in a quandary over which candidate’s hand to raise as the APC’s authentic flagbearer, forcing him to ask voters to “vote for the candidates of their choice.” What Happened To $200m In 7 Months? On the eve of the national elections last week, one other item competing for the headlines was the arrest and detention of the close aide of a prominent politician over allegations of suspicious money transfers. IC gathered that as investigations into the suspicious transfers expanded, the managing directors of four major banks were invited by the EFCC to explain their roles. Although the immediate crackdown was linked to a $4m transfer at a bureau de change, IC gathered that the principal of the suspect had transferred at least $200m through four banks – Keystone, GTBank, FCMB and Zenith – between June and January. Insiders informed IC that while the suspect may have transferred about $46m through Keystone during the period, GTBank may have been responsible for the transfer of over $60m while the other two banks handled the remaining sum. We gathered that the interim report may be ready with the EFCC by now. Obasanjo In ‘Wait-And-See’ Mode Former President Olusegun Obasanjo who has staked his reputation on the defeat of President Muhammadu Buhari is not backing down. A source informed IC on Saturday that when the former president was told of unconfirmed reports that the APC could be having an upper hand, he was furious with the caller, asking him, “Have I ever failed in anything I set out to do?” Not sure what to say, the caller said though he didn’t also believe the reports, he only wanted to share his concern. “Well,” Obasanjo thundered, “If that is the reason why you’re calling me, let’s wait and see!"