When I woke from sleep today, I was almost tempted to rush out to see if the sky had changed its colour from blue to green. When I eventually stepped out, behold it was still blue. Even as I drove down to my office, nothing had changed. Abuja roads were still swarming with FRSC and VIO officials, many of the city dwellers were still wondering if the members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) were still on the streets, and yes, I still bought one litre of petrol at N145 . You see, with the high level of expectancy and euphoria that have preceded the submission of the ministerial nominees list to the Nigerian Senate before Tuesday, you would be forgiven to think that list had answers to all that ail Nigeria. However, in wasting about two months before nominating his cabinet members, he’s proved yet again that he doesn’t quite believe he needs the noisemakers, sorry ministers to take us to the promised Next Level. And we shouldn’t have been surprised because President Buhari is a unique breed. He lives in his own peculiar world where the rule of law and convention are probably unrecognised aliens. That also explains the reason those who now claim they’re disappointed with the list should miss me with the lamentations. If anything at all, I’m rather disappointed with your various degrees of disappointment. Any doubt I had that President Muhammadu Buhari’s second coming would be much different from the first fizzled out the moment Abba Kyari’s reappointment was announced. It would take someone who truly didn’t care about public opinion to return Abba Kyari to his position. What with all the ravings against him in the past four years, even from those close to the president. With his reappointment, President Muhammadu Buhari told us all in no uncertain terms that he didn’t care what we thought of his administration; that only whatever he deemed right matters. But it could be a good thing. It could also be a bad one. Only time will unveil the true picture eventually. President Buhari may not know it but appointing Ikeazor to head the Pension Transitional Arrangement Department (PTAD) remains one of his best personnel decision since 2015 So, while people were breaking their heads on the various social media platforms on Wednesday, I decided to find my happy place in the legendary list. One of such is the return of Babatunde Raji Fashola. Oh yes, I was happy to see him on that list. Please don’t ask me why because you may not receive a satisfactory answer. I like the fact that there is a certain finesse and humanness in Fashola that is completely absent in our present crop of politicians. I also feel that if Buhari had not burdened him with three quite crucial ministries, he would have made a better impact. Sharon Ikeazor’s presence on the list is a pleasant surprise. President Buhari may not know it but appointing Ikeazor to head the Pension Transitional Arrangement Department (PTAD) remains one of his best personnel decision since 2015. You see, I haven’t also met her personally but sometime in 2018 when I took an aunt to PTAD to sort out some pension related issues, I was amazed at how well the place was organised. I was even more amazed at the dignified manner the personnel treated the retirees, right from the gate. I also had a similar when I went to submit my mother’s new account number. My worry now is what will happen to PTAD when she leaves to assume her ministerial duties. Hopefully, she would leave behind a system that would be near tamper proof from our unconscionable civil servants. We all know the sorry state of our pensioners before her coming. If she could wade through that horrible maze created by decades of malicious and negligent bureaucracy in the Nigerian pension administration, and successfully chart a clear path then she can do much towards salvaging this country. Then, I’m also happy that the sports minister Solomon Dalung is out. Whatever, it is the president thinks he owes that man that made him appoint him at all in his first term, must have been fully repaid, we hope. President Muhammadu Buhari has decided to give Dr. Onu a chance to finally deliver the Made in Nigeria pencils he said we would have in 2018. He made this promise in 2016! The man is a clown, simple. Now, he can go back to his first love and passion; hunting on the hills of the plateau. I’m also more than a little piqued with the re-nomination of Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu. But what do I even know? Perhaps, President Muhammadu Buhari has decided to give Dr. Onu a chance to finally deliver the Made in Nigeria pencils he said we would have in 2018. He made this promise in 2016! But after we are done with our ‘hailings’ and wailings, it’s President Buhari’s prerogative to appoint whomsoever he wishes. And whether he knows it or not, he rises or falls with them. One would have said that whoever does not like the present nominees’ list should go send their own to Senator Ahmed Lawan but Nigeria rises and falls with the quality of its ministers too, unfortunately. It’s undeniably unfortunate that once again, we will be saddled with failed governors, EFCC regular ‘guests’ and AMCON’s ‘clients’ as executive members of the highest ruling organ in the land. But it is what it is. That’s the bed we’ve made for ourselves with decades of sacrificing everything virtuous on the altar of unbridled greed and personal gratification. Can all the nominees come forward, please? Now, take a bow and go! Remind me again why this country’s head is ever bowed in the comity of serious nationn…