The Federal Road Safety has arrested 1750 violators over non-compliance as it begins a nationwide clampdown on tricycles and motorcycles without number plates and riders without class ‘A’ license. According to a statement by the Corps Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, the special clampdown intervention patrol which commenced on October 2, recorded massive arrests of offenders in 18 states namely; Kaduna, Nasarawa, Katsina, Kebbi, Delta, Benue, Oyo, Niger, Kwara, Adamawa, Kogi, Zamfara, Anambra, Sokoto, Osun, Rivers, Kano and Ondo state. Giving the breakdown of the arrests, the Corps Public Education Officer said, “The highest number of arrests was recorded in Kaduna state with a total of 430 arrests. Nasarawa state followed suit with a total of 219 arrests comprising of 15 tricycles and 204 motorcycles. In Benue state alone, a total of 147 arrests have been made, comprising of 140 motorcycles and 7 tricycles. Other are; Ondo 61, Anambra 41, Kebbi 51, Katsina 110, Delta 92, Zamfara 76, Oyo 178, Kogi 16, Mubi 10, Rivers 11, Kano 132, Niger 28, Osun 66 and Sokoto 10.” According to him, this was achieved in friendly collaboration with the Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corpse and other law enforcement agencies. It would be recalled that the Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, following series of consultations with the Joint Tax Board (JTB), agreed to shift the commencement of enforcement from the earlier date of August 1, 2019 to allow for more sensitisation and awareness, and further consultations with critical stakeholders on the need for the clampdown. Speaking on the operation, the Corps Marshal said, “This shift of date was agreed on to give riders adequate time to comply with the laws and acquire both the class A license and the number plates. e expected that by now, due to the adequate publicity we gave the commencement of enforcement and the consultations that followed, all affected riders would have complied with this demand of the law” He added that the essence of this operation was to enhance the security of lives and properties of road users. “There have been series of reports of pervasive use of these categories of vehicles to perpetuate all manners of crime and we are saying enough is enough. All Tricycles and motorcycles must have an identity so that they can be easily traced”, he said. Oyeyemi therefore called on all motorists who operate within these categories to endeavour to procure their licenses and also have their tricycles and motorcycles duly registered to avoid arrest.